Sonatas take a look correlated queries.
So if you remember from before co-related so queries where the inquiry can run independently of the
query.
So here we have our example from befool for coverlets is so query we have select screening ID customer
ID and then are in a very select count seats ID from reserve see web booking ID Ku's be to ID and then
back to all out of query from bookings be order by screening ID so you can see here in the query we
have bita ID.
So were referring to data in the outer query.
So from bookings be set from this table.
So first time she want to run the outer query on the sign so here I select screening ID custom ID from
bookings and I've ordered that by the screening ID.
So you can see that the outer query for this query here.
So let's run not without the query first and you can see it's return the screening ID on the customer
ID from the bookings table.
And I've ordered it by the screening IDs so we have 1 1 1 2 free x.
So you can see for screening I.D. one we have a booking made by customer for 12 and 16 for a screening
I.D. to have a bookings made by customers to 6 and 18 et cetera et cetera.
So now we can see the results from the outer query.
Let's run the entire set up.
Gary see you can see we have the same two columns from before we have the screening ID and the customer
ID from the bookings table but we also now a third call them we have a count on the seeto ID.
So basically this is saying that for screening ID one customer id full reserve two to two seats and
for screening one customer id 12 hours to see and customer id 16 reserve foresees etc etc. and basically
what is happening is that for every row in the out query.
So for every screening ID and customer id combination in a query is running.
So this in a query is running for a screening ID one plus customer id fool.
A fool is running for screening ID one customer id 12 and counting the number of seats.
So the seat ID counting the seat ID for screening ID one on customer ID for screening ID one customer
12 et cetera et cetera.
So this iniquity is running multiple times its running for every single row that was returned by the
outer query.
So this is what a correlated subquery looks like.
We know that this is a correlated subquery because if we try and run this inquiry independently of the
outer query we're going to get an error.
So let's run it and see what happens.
So here we have to in a query select count see ID from reserve see where booking ID is equal to B to
ID.
So let's run.
And you can see we got an error.
We're getting an in column B to ID and we're close.
So basically it doesn't know what this b ID is.
It doesn't know where this B Table is.
It doesn't know what his ID column is and that's because we've referenced the bookings table as be in
the outer query.
So when we run a query we need this outer query to know what B stands for.
So the query can't run independently of the outer query so it's a co-related.
So Gary you see we get results when we run the whole query.
And basically this way I close here is making the link between booking ID field in the reserved seat
table and the ID field in the bookings table.
So every time there's a match between these two is going to run this in a query we know from before
that the booking ID column in the reserved seat table is a foreign key to the ID field in the bookings
table.
OK so that's it for a correlated subquery.
Hopefully you can see the difference between non correlated queries and correlated queries from these
examples.
And now let's move on to the exercise.